So we saw the field produced by a single point charged Q1 has a magnitude like this.
The direction is away from positive point charge and toward negative charges.
All right.
Now what else do we know.
This is really the key this is the most important equation you're going to see in this class here is
that the force on any charge q is write it out like this F as a vector is equal to.
Again it's the charge that I'm looking at.
I want to find the force on this charge.
Q multiplied by the electric field at that position.
If I know again this here is I might just make some notes.
He is the electric field
at position
of the charge.
Q
All right let's look at a couple of cases here.
Let's look at.
Imagine we have is somebody told you there was a an electric field somewhere in space.
Let's take this case right here.
I'm going to assume here that somehow there is something that is producing an electric field that is
like this.
Now what happens if I place a positive charge right here.
How would you draw the direction of the force acting on this particular charge.
For now I'm going to assume that the magnitude here is one hundred newtons per Coolum and that the field
is uniform.
We have a constant field all right everywhere in space.
The charge here that I'm going to consider is going to be a positive three Coolum charge.
How would I calculate the force in which direction with the force being.
Well to calculate the force I'm just going to use my equation right here right the force acting on cue
let's do it in green and blue over here is simply the charge which is three multiplied by the electric
field right here at this position the electric field is 100.
In this case I would have a force of 300 Newtons.
So what would be the direction here of the force if I look at my equation right here see the force here
is a vector and it multiplies a scalar which is the charge multiplied by another vector.
Remember this guy here is a vector.
And again I've given you the direction of that vector.
So if the charge is positive it means that the force is going to be in the same direction as the field
because all I'm doing is I'm multiplying it by a positive number right here.
I have a vector E which is pointing like this and I'm multiplying it by some positive number.
In this case it's three.
So here I would have a force that would be like this.
And the magnitude of that force would be three hundred Newtons.
So that way I would write this would be three hundred Newtons and maybe in the x direction.
That's how I would write it as a vector.
All right what if instead if I had a negative charge over here a negative charge and I place that negative
charge in the same electric field.
Now let's imagine that this guy here is negative five Coolum.
That's the value of the charge q in this case.
So how would I calculate the force.
Well again if I'm only interested in the magnitude of the force.
So a lot of times when I use this equation I really just put the magnitude in.
So here I would just put the magnitude which is five.
That's the charge and the feel that it's the feel that at this position right here is simply it's the
same feel it's 100 newtons per column.
So this here would be a magnitude of 500 Newtons would be the magnitude of the force.
Which direction now would you actually draw that force.
Well again it would have to be in this direction right here.
This here would be the direction of the force the magnitude here would be 500.
If you decide to put the negative sine you're going to get negative five hundred.
And that's OK.
That's because you assume that the positive direction is everything pointing here to the right which
is why you had a little positive over here.
Negative simply tells me the direction.
So this means that four negative charges the force is always opposite of the electric field.
So that's really really important.
OK.
So let's go see over here.
So four positive charges four positive cues the f is parallel to the electric field.
Let's write it down for negative charges for negative charges for negative cues the f is a..
Parallel to electric field actually let me just right opposite.
I think that's kind of clear is
opposite.
Exactly 180 degrees of the electric field at that position.
That's kind of what this illustrates right here.